"ENTERPRISE"...
PREVIOUSLY ON
THIS SHIP EVEN HAS LIFE SUPPORT.
I'M STARTING TO WONDER IF
THEY MUST HAVE ATMOSPHERE
ON THEIR BRIDGE.
THE HUMANS HAVE SEEN TOO MUCH.
WE CAN'T ALLOW THEM TO ESCAPE.
[ BOTH GRUNT ]
GET OUR PEOPLE BACK.
EVASIVE MANEUVERS.
-DID WE GET EVERYONE?
-JUST THE MACOs.
Trip, we've lost
the transporter.
until we come back for you.
Sit tight
UNDERSTOOD.
IF THIS IS A ROMULAN SHIP,
WHY WOULD THEY BE STIRRING UP
TROUBLE SO FAR FROM HOME?
STAY OUT OF THIS, PINK-SKIN.
SHRAN, LISTEN TO ME.
THE SHIP THAT ATTACKED YOU
WASN'T TELLARITE.
YOU'RE BOTH BEING SET UP.
THIS CONFERENCE TO GO FORWARD.
SOMEONE DIDN'T WANT
THEY'VE ENTERED THE BRIDGE.
THERE'S NO ONE HERE.
[ BOTH GRUNTING ]
THEY WON'T LAST MUCH LONGER.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
IT WILL HAVE TO WAIT.
WE'RE APPROACHING
OUR NEXT TARGET.
STABILIZE THE DRONE
FOR BATTLE.
THE HOLOGRAPHIC SKIN.
ACTIVATING
USE THIS CONFIGURATION.
YOU STILL IN ONE PIECE?
WHEN MY HEAD STOPS SPINNING.
YEAH, I'LL LET YOU KNOW
[ ENGINES WHOOSH ]
FEEL THAT?
WE'RE DROPPING OUT OF WARP.
TARGET ACQUIRED.
ENGAGE VISUAL SENSORS.
THE RIGELIANS ARE HAILING US.
ANSWER THEM.
-WE'RE FIRING AT SOMEONE.
-[ WEAPONS FIRE ]
WELL, BRACE YOURSELF.
THEY'LL BE SURE TO FIRE BACK.
WHOEVER IT IS,
THE DRONE IS TAKING DAMAGE.
TO SEND THEIR DISTRESS CALL.
GIVE THE RIGELIANS TIME
NOW, DESTROY THEM.
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
BETWEEN THE ANDORIANS
FOR NOW, THE TRUCE
ON ENTERPRISE IS HOLDING.
AND TELLARITES
BUT STARFLEET HAS INFORMED ME
OF A NEW DIPLOMATIC CRISIS.
SCOUT SHIP WITH A CREW OF 17.
IT WAS A HEAVILY ARMED
THERE WERE NO SURVIVORS.
WHY DOES STARFLEET THINK
TO THE OTHER INCIDENTS?
THIS IS CONNECTED
RIGELIANS TRANSMITTED
A VISUAL RECORD
THAT ATTACKED THEM.
OF THE SHIP
THEIR TRADE COMMISSION
I'M TOLD
IS DEMANDING COMPENSATION
AND MY ARREST.
WHOEVER'S BEHIND
THESE ATTACKS,
THEY'RE TRYING TO DO
MORE THAN PROVOKE
ANDORIANS AND TELLARITES.
A WAR BETWEEN
DESTABILIZE THE ENTIRE REGION.
THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO
WE NEED TO FIND THE MARAUDER
BEFORE IT ATTACKS AGAIN.
I'VE FOUND A WAY TO DETECT
THEIR WARP SIGNATURE.
DESIGNED A SENSOR GRID
AND TRAVIS
THAT SHOULD EXTEND OUR RANGE.
HOW MANY SHIPS WILL IT TAKE
TO MAKE THIS WORK?
ONLY 128.
THERE'S JUST ONE WAY WE CAN GET
THAT MANY SHIPS TO HELP US.
TALAS.
TO TAKE ME HOME?
HAVE YOU COME
I THINK THIS DENOBULAN DOCTOR
IS SECRETLY IN LOVE WITH YOU.
HE WANTS TO KEEP YOU TO HIMSELF.
YOU SAID MY WOUND
WAS SUPERFICIAL.
YOU WERE ONLY GRAZED,
BUT THE PHASE PISTOL
WAS SET TO KILL.
THAT TELLARITE PIG.
IS THERE ANY OTHER KIND?
INFECTION CAN DO TO ANDORIANS.
I'VE SEEN WHAT PHASE-PULSE
YOU'RE GOING TO BE FINE.
WE'LL BE HOME SOON,
THE TWO OF US.
DON'T LET ME DIE UNAVENGED.
I WON'T.
I'M SORRY. SHE NEEDS TO REST.
YOU SEE WHAT I MEAN?
HE CAN'T GET ENOUGH OF YOU.
I'M JEALOUS.
DOCTOR.
HOW IS SHE?
LUCKY TO BE ALIVE.
I HAVE A PROPOSAL.
TELLARITES, I'M ALL FOR IT.
IF IT INVOLVES KILLING
YOUR SHIP IS ADRIFT
IN ENEMY SPACE,
DAMAGED AND DEFENSELESS,
BECAUSE OF A SINGLE
RIGELIAN SCOUT SHIP?
IS THAT WHAT YOU WANT ME
TO REPORT TO THE SENATE?
HAS TAKEN DAMAGE BEFORE.
THE DRONE
IT'S DESIGNED TO SELF-REPAIR.
IF OUR ENEMIES FIND IT --
THAT'S THE POINT
OF THIS PROJECT.
NO PRISONERS TO CAPTURE,
NO BODIES TO RECOVER.
THESE DRONE SHIPS CAN NEVER
BE TRACED BACK TO US.
A MODIFIED WARBIRD.
THIS PROTOTYPE'S
THE VULCANS WOULD IDENTIFY IT
THE MOMENT THEY INSPECTED
THE PROPULSION MATRIX.
GET ANYWHERE NEAR IT.
THE VULCANS WON'T
OUR DISTANT BROTHERS.
DON'T UNDERESTIMATE
BRING YOUR SHIP HOME.
YOUR TEST HAS BEEN A SUCCESS.
I'LL TELL THE SENATE THAT
OTHERWISE, THEY'LL MAKE SOMEONE
PAY FOR THIS FAILURE.
AND I PROMISE YOU,
IT WON'T BE ME.
JOLAN TRU, ADMIRAL.
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
ADMIRAL GARDNER JUST CALLED.
AVAILABLE, BUT AT TOP SPEED,
HE'S SENDING EVERY SHIP
FOR MOST OF THEM TO GET HERE.
IT'LL TAKE WEEKS
WHAT ABOUT COLUMBIA?
SHE'S STUCK IN DRY DOCK --
ENGINE TROUBLE.
DID YOU GET THROUGH
TO YOUR PEOPLE?
DISPATCHING 23 VESSELS.
MINISTER T'PAU IS
THAT'S ALL?
HAS BEEN DISBANDED.
THE HIGH COMMAND
MANY OF OUR SHIPS NO LONGER
HAVE FULL CREW COMPLEMENTS.
A BETTER TIME TO CLEAN HOUSE.
T'PAU COULD HAVE PICKED
ANDORIAN AND TELLARITE
FLEET DEPLOYMENTS?
I'M THINKING OF ASKING THEM
TO JOIN US.
NET'S GONNA HAVE A GAPING HOLE.
WITHOUT MORE SHIPS, OUR SENSOR
THROUGH IT, AND WE'D NEVER KNOW.
THE MARAUDER COULD FLY RIGHT
HAVE YOU DISCUSSED THIS
WITH COMMANDER SHRAN
OR AMBASSADOR GRAL?
NOT YET.
AGREE, WHICH SEEMS UNLIKELY,
EVEN IF BOTH SIDES WERE TO
WOULD HAVE TO BE COORDINATED,
THEIR DEPLOYMENTS
A COMMAND HIERARCHY
ESTABLISHED.
AN ANDORIAN CAPTAIN
MIGHT HAVE A PROBLEM
-TAKING ORDERS FROM
A TELLARITE?
-PRECISELY.
THERE'S ONE SPECIES
WITH BOTH OF THEM -- HUMANS.
THAT'S ON FRIENDLY TERMS
ENTERPRISE COULD SERVE
AS THE COMMAND SHIP,
RELAYING ALL ORDERS.
THE OTHER SHIPS
WOULD ONLY HAVE
COMMUNICATION CODES.
TO EXCHANGE
IT MIGHT WORK.
YOU DON'T SOUND
TOO OPTIMISTIC.
COOPERATED ON A MUTUAL ENDEAVOR.
THESE FOUR SPECIES HAVE NEVER
AS FAR AS I KNOW,
TO GET THEM TOGETHER BEFORE.
NO ONE'S EVER TRIED
FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD ABOUT THESE
ROMULANS, THEY MEAN BUSINESS.
IF THEY'RE BEHIND THESE ATTACKS,
WE HAVE TO FIND SOME WAY
TO STOP THEM,
OR NEXT TIME,
WITH A THOUSAND OF THOSE SHIPS.
THEY MIGHT COME BACK
SOME OF THESE CIRCUITS
ARE LIVE,
WHAT THEY'RE FOR.
BUT I DON'T KNOW
WHAT HALF THIS STUFF IS.
I CAN'T FIGURE OUT
WHAT ABOUT THE OTHER HALF?
AN ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM.
WELL, I THINK I FOUND
THAT'D MAKE SENSE.
THESE CONSOLES LOOK
LIKE CREW STATIONS.
HERE GOES.
WELL, HOW ABOUT THAT?
WE'LL HAVE HEAT AND AIR.
IN A FEW MINUTES,
AH.
DO YOU THINK IT'S POSSIBLE THAT
THERE'S NO ONE ELSE ONBOARD?
HAVE A BRIDGE LIKE THIS?
WHY WOULD A ROBOT SHIP
IT COULD BE A PROTOTYPE --
THE LATEST IN COMPUTER CONTROLS.
OUTFIT AN EXISTING SHIP WITH
A WHOLE LOT EASIER FOR US.
WELL, THAT'D MAKE THINGS
HOW'S THAT?
IF THIS SHIP'S RUN BY COMPUTER,
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS
FIND THE OFF SWITCH.
AH.
I'D RATHER COHABIT
WITH KLINGON TARGS
THAN JOIN FORCES
WITH TELLARITES!
YOUR PERSONAL MATING PREFERENCE
IS NO CONCERN OF MINE.
TO STOP YOU, DON'T WORRY.
IF YOU'RE WAITING FOR ME
I WON'T.
YOU HEARD WHAT HE SAID!
AND I HEARD WHAT YOU SAID.
SO NOW IT'S TIME FOR BOTH
OF YOU TO LISTEN TO ME.
INSTEAD OF INSULTING YOU
TO MAKE YOU FEEL AT HOME
WITH YOUR ARROGANCE
AND PUTTING UP
WHY DON'T THE TWO OF YOU TRY
AS A SIGN OF MY RESPECT,
BEHAVING LIKE HUMANS
FOR A CHANGE?
AND YOU SAID YOU WOULDN'T
BE INSULTING?
HUMANS SEEM TO DO BETTER
THERE'S ONE THING
THAN ANY SPECIES WE'VE MET.
WITH A COMMON THREAT,
WHEN WE'RE FACED
WE PUT OUR DIFFERENCES ASIDE
AND TRY TO COOPERATE.
SOMEONE IS DETERMINED TO START
A WAR IN THIS REGION.
HOW WE CAN STOP THEM.
I'VE SHOWN YOU
BUT IF YOU DON'T
UNDERSTAND THAT,
FEEL FREE TO STRANGLE
EACH OTHER.
JUST REMEMBER,
THIS MARAUDER WANTS YOU TO DO.
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT
WE'VE GONE BACK TO WARP.
AND JUST WHEN IT HAPPENED,
I GOT A POWER SPIKE
FROM ONE OF THESE CONDUITS.
DO YOU THINK WARP CONTROL
RUNS THROUGH HERE?
ORIGINALLY BUILT FOR A CREW,
IF THIS SHIP WAS
SHOULD CONNECT TO THE BRIDGE.
ALL OF ITS CONTROLS
GOT DISCONNECTED.
MAYBE THEY NEVER
ON THESE CONSOLES.
KEEP YOUR EYES
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
DID YOU DO THAT?
EVEN MONEY WE JUST FOUND
THE PROPULSION CONTROLS.
WHAT ARE THEY DOING?
VISUAL SURVEILLANCE IS OFFLINE.
I CAN'T TELL FOR SURE.
[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
DROPPING OUT OF WARP.
THE DRONE IS
[ ENGINE WHOOSHES ]
YOU FOUND THE OFF SWITCH?
THE POWER TO THE WARP CONTROLS.
ALL I DID WAS INTERRUPT
WILL SWITCH ON IN A FEW MINUTES.
THERE'S PROBABLY A BACKUP THAT
ANY SENSE OF THIS?
CAN YOU MAKE
AH, WHERE'S HOSHI
WHEN YOU NEED HER?
THAT'S WHERE WE ARE.
I'M GONNA GUESS THAT'S THE POWER
CIRCUIT I JUST SHUT DOWN.
IF THIS WERE ENTERPRISE,
THAT'D BE THE POWER COUPLING FOR
THE ENTIRE WARP-CONTROL SYSTEM,
INCLUDING THE BACKUPS.
SHOULD BE RIGHT THROUGH THERE.
HUH. MAESTRO.
ONE OF THEM'S LEFT THE BRIDGE.
HE'S IN THE SERVICE JUNCTION.
WHY?
IT APPEARS HE'S LOCATED THE MAIN
COUPLING FOR THE WARP MATRIX.
WHAT ELSE IS IN THERE?
JUST WHAT WE NEED TO KILL HIM.
I'M GONNA FLIP THROUGH THESE,
LIKE, CIRCUIT BREAKERS.
OKAY, MALCOLM.
HOW THE DIAGRAM CHANGES.
LET ME KNOW
READY WHEN YOU ARE.
THERE'S THE FIRST ONE.
-IT WENT OUT.
-HE'S DISABLING
THE WARP SYSTEM.
STILL ACTIVATED?
IS SELF-REPAIR
TO REROUTE THE MAJOR CIRCUITS.
IT'LL TAKE MORE THAN A DAY
WE DON'T HAVE A DAY.
IN THE SERVICE JUNCTION.
ONE OF THEM IS STILL
SEAL HIM IN.
I'M GONNA SEE IF THERE'S
A COMMUNICATIONS CIRCUIT
WE CAN TAP INTO.
MALCOLM!
[ COMMUNICATOR BEEPS ]
DID YOU TOUCH SOMETHING?
MALCOLM,
WASN'T ME.
DO THE HATCH CONTROLS
WORK ON YOUR SIDE?
THEY'RE NOT RESPONDING.
NEGATIVE.
[ BOTH GRUNTING ]
and you won't be harmed.
Listen carefully,
-I CONTROL THE SHIP.
-WHO ARE YOU?
NOT ANYMORE, YOU DON'T.
COMMANDER, WHAT'S HAPPENING?
REACTOR COOLANT.
RADIATION'S AT 100 ROENTGENS
AND CLIMBING.
That gives you seven minutes,
Commander.
Reestablish the warp matrix,
or you will die.
OF THE IMPERIAL GUARD.
COMPLIMENTS
THE COMMUNICATION CODES
THESE ARE
THE JOINT OPERATION.
WE'LL USE FOR
TELLARITES ARE ALSO TAKING PART.
GRAL'S INFORMED ME THAT THE
THESE CODES AS WELL.
SO THEY'LL NEED
DO WHAT YOU HAVE TO.
I APPRECIATE YOUR COOPERATION.
YOU'RE NOT ESPECIALLY DIFFICULT
TO WORK WITH, CAPTAIN.
UNLIKE TELLARITES,
AND TRY TO LIVE BY THEM.
YOU UNDERSTAND ETHICS
TRY?
WELL, NOBODY'S PERFECT.
HAVE YOU SERVED ON
ALL THESE VESSELS?
A BIT BEFORE MY TIME.
A FEW OF THEM ARE
BUT THEY WERE ALL
NAMED ENTERPRISE.
THIS ONE SAILED EARTH'S OCEANS
ALMOST 400 YEARS AGO.
MY VESSEL, THE KUMARI,
WAS NAMED
TO CIRCUMNAVIGATE ANDORIA.
FOR THE FIRST ICE-CUTTER
BE NAMED AFTER OUR VESSELS,
PERHAPS FUTURE SHIPS WILL
SOMETHING HISTORIC TOGETHER.
ESPECIALLY IF WE DO
THERE'S NO REASON OUR PEOPLE
CAN'T BECOME ALLIES.
AGREED.
TO THAT BOARD, MALCOLM.
PAY ATTENTION
I'M GONNA TRY TO CUT POWER
TO THE REACTOR.
MAKE SURE YOU'RE WELL AWAY
I'VE GOT A BETTER IDEA.
FROM THE DOOR.
YOU'RE WASTING TIME, COMMANDER.
THE RADIATION WILL BE FATAL
IN THREE MINUTES.
I can save you.
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE BOARD?
MALCOLM,
EVERYTHING'S OFF.
THAT'S MORE LIKE IT.
RADIATION'S FALLING.
THE REACTOR OFFLINE.
THEY'VE TAKEN
ACTIVATE THE BACKUP SEQUENCER.
I'm still in control.
There's nothing you can do
to save your life
EXCEPT FOLLOW MY INSTRUCTIONS.
THE FINAL CONFIRMATIONS.
WE'VE RECEIVED
ALL 128 SHIPS ARE IN POSITION.
-Phlox to Captain Archer.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
GO AHEAD.
I require you in sick bay
as soon as possible.
NO.
I DID EVERYTHING I COULD.
YOU SAID SHE'D RECOVER.
SHRAN.
[ SIGHS ]
[ SOBBING ]
NO.
[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
Commander, what's your status?
I SHOULD HAVE BROUGHT MY HELMET.
RADIATION'S AT 180 AND CLIMBING.
I CAN'T SHUT IT DOWN.
TO DIE LIKE THIS.
YOU DON'T HAVE
YOU'RE NOT GETTING
THIS SHIP BACK.
You're wrong, Commander.
IT WILL REPAIR ITSELF.
EVENTUALLY
YOU'LL HAVE DIED FOR NOTHING.
I'LL RECONNECT THE MATRIX.
ALL RIGHT.
OPEN THE HATCH!
MALCOLM, NO!
THAT'S AN ORDER!
[ PANTING ]
COMMANDER?
Do your duty, Malcolm.
RESTORE THE MATRIX.
SAVE YOUR COMMANDER'S LIFE.
CONNECTED TO YOUR SENSOR NETWORK
THERE! EVERY TELLARITE SHIP IS
DESPITE THE INEFFICIENT
ANDORIAN CODES.
NOW COMES THE HARD PART.
WE HAVE TO SIT AND WAIT.
WE'RE NOT A PATIENT PEOPLE.
I'VE NOTICED.
-MAYBE THAT'S
SOMETHING WE CAN --
-[ DOOR OPENS ]
I ONLY WANT TO TALK TO HIM!
I ONLY WANT TO TALK.
WE'RE LISTENING.
YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT TALAS,
THE WOMAN YOU KILLED.
SHE ATTACKED US.
THE ATTACK WAS OVER
WHEN YOU SHOT HER.
BUT I'M NOT HERE
TO ARGUE THAT.
HER FAMILY WAS PRIVILEGED,
HER PARENTS WEALTHY.
SHE COULD HAVE CHOSEN
ANY CAREER,
NEVER KNOWN DISCOMFORT.
BUT SHE FELT THE CALL OF DUTY.
TO THE IMPERIAL GUARD.
SHE PLEDGED HER LIFE
TALAS COULD HAVE HAD ANYTHING.
ANYONE.
SHE CHOSE ME.
I JUST WANTED YOU TO KNOW.
IT'S HER BLOOD.
DIES FAR FROM HOME,
WHEN A GUARDSMAN
HIS COMPANIONS --
HER COMPANIONS --
CARRY A PART OF HER
BACK TO THE ICE
OF ANDORIA.
TO KNOW THAT, TOO...
I WANTED YOU
...BEFORE YOU DIE!
THAT'S ENOUGH!
NOT UNTIL HIS BLOOD
PAYS FOR HERS!
KEEP HIM AWAY!
YOU WILL FACE JUSTICE
AT MY HANDS!
HAPPEN ON MY SHIP.
THAT'S NOT GONNA
YES, IT WILL, PINK-SKIN,
AND THE TELLARITES
BECAUSE IF YOU
FOR ANDORIAN TRADITION,
DON'T SHOW RESPECT
WILL WITHDRAW ITS SHIPS.
THE IMPERIAL GUARD
WHAT TRADITION?
UNLESS THIS MURDERER
MEETS ME IN COMBAT,
YOUR PRECIOUS ALLIANCE
IS FINISHED!
I'M RECONNECTING
THE WARP MATRIX!
Shut off the radiation!
WHEN YOU'RE FINISHED.
THERE!
AND OPEN THIS HATCH!
NOW SHUT IT OFF!
COMMANDER, STAY WITH ME.
BEEN REACTIVATED.
THE MATRIX HAS
THE HUMANS ANYMORE.
THEN WE DON'T NEED
WHY DIDN'T YOU LISTEN TO ME?
WE'RE BETTER OFF HERE
THAN ON THE BRIDGE.
[ BEEPING ]
SET A COURSE FOR HOME.
TAKE IT TO WARP.
[ ENGINE WHOOSHES ]
WE'RE BACK AT WARP.
NOT TO HELP THEM.
I ORDERED YOU
I APOLOGIZE FOR SAVING
YOUR LIFE, COMMANDER.
IT WON'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
SORRY.
TO THE BRIDGE SCHEMATIC,
ACCORDING
THIS IS AN ACCESS PANEL.
WHERE DOES IT LEAD?
AWAY FROM THE BRIDGE.
WHAT DOES THAT GIVE US?
THAT WE'RE BEING MONITORED.
WE SHOULD ASSUME
DID YOU EVER READ THE MANUAL
THAT CAME WITH THAT THING?
INADVERTENT OVERLOAD.
THE WARNING ABOUT
HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE?
BY NOW, LESS THAN A MINUTE.
[ BEEPING ]
ARE THEY TALKING ABOUT?
WHAT ACCESS PANEL
THE SUPERSTRUCTURE,
IT LEADS INTO
CRITICAL EQUIPMENT.
AWAY FROM ANY
WHEN THE DRONE RETURNS.
WE'LL DEAL WITH THEM
A SAFE DISTANCE BY NOW.
WE'VE GOT TO BE
INTO THE POWER CONDUIT.
I WIRED IT DIRECTLY
WE'VE LOST CONTACT.
THE ANDORIAN TRADITION
SHRAN WANTS TO FOLLOW
IS CALLED THE USHAAN.
IT'S A DUEL TO THE DEATH.
BASICALLY,
FIGHT WITH THESE.
THE COMBATANTS
IT'S CALLED A USHAAN-TOR.
IT'S AN ICE-MINER'S TOOL.
WITH THEM AS CHILDREN.
ANDORIANS PLAY
A TELLARITE WON'T STAND A CHANCE
USING ONE AGAINST SHRAN.
THAT'S GONNA BE AN ISSUE.
I DON'T THINK
AMBASSADOR GRAL'S REFUSING
TO LET NAARG FIGHT.
ANDORIANS WILL CONSIDER THAT
A FURTHER INSULT.
ABOUT THIS TRADITION?
WHAT ELSE DO WE KNOW
PLEASE, MAKE YOURSELF AT HOME.
I CARRY IT EVERYWHERE.
AN OLD FRIEND --
TWO HOURS AGO, WE SPOKE
ABOUT A NEW PARTNERSHIP
BETWEEN ANDORIA AND EARTH.
A BENEFIT TO BOTH OUR WORLDS.
YOU'RE THROWING IT AWAY
FOR PERSONAL VENGEANCE.
THERE'S MORE TO THIS THAN TALAS.
ALMOST MY ENTIRE CREW.
I LOST MY SHIP,
AVENGE THESE LOSSES,
IF I DO NOTHING TO
WHAT KIND OF A LEADER AM I?
WHY SHOULD ANY SOLDIER
FOLLOW ME AGAIN?
BESIDES, YOU SHOULD
BE WISHING ME LUCK.
SPECIES AT THE IMPERIAL GUARD.
I PROVIDE A VOICE FOR YOUR
I'M VALUABLE TO HUMANS.
I SPOKE TO AMBASSADOR GRAL
ABOUT THE RULES
OF THE USHAAN...
THE RIGHT OF SUBSTITUTION.
SPECIFICALLY,
FIGHT IN PLACE OF HIS UNDERLING?
THE AMBASSADOR'S DECIDED TO
NOT THE AMBASSADOR.
YOU WOULDN'T.
I'M THE SUBSTITUTE.
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO FIGHT ME.
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO KILL YOU.
YOU'RE MY FRIEND.
THEN CALL IT OFF.
I CAN'T.
WITH ONE PHASE PISTOL?
YOU DID ALL THIS
YOU'RE GOOD AT BUILDING THINGS.
I'M GOOD AT BLOWING THEM UP.
I'M THINKING WE SHOULD
GET TO THE OUTER HULL.
ANOTHER AREA WITH LIFE SUPPORT.
NO, WE MIGHT BE SAFER FINDING
WITH SUBSPACE TRANSCEIVERS.
THE HULL'S COVERED
IF I CAN LINK ONE OF THEM
TO OUR COMMUNICATORS,
WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
CONTACT ENTERPRISE.
ADMIRAL, THE DRONE'S
RESTORED CONTACT.
ARE STARTING TO WORK.
THE REPAIR SYSTEMS
IT WILL TAKE DAYS.
LET ME KNOW WHEN IT'S RESTORED
ITS ABILITY TO SELF-DESTRUCT.
-[ DOOR CHIMES ]
-COME IN.
UPDATING YOUR WILL?
YOU EXPECT ME TO LOSE?
OF THE IMPERIAL GUARD,
SHRAN IS A MEMBER
TRAINED IN COMBAT
FROM CHILDHOOD.
HE WON'T BACK DOWN.
HE CAN'T. I UNDERSTAND.
GUARD WILL WITHDRAW THEIR SHIPS.
IF YOU BACK DOWN, THE IMPERIAL
IF I KILL SHRAN, OR ONE
OF THE TELLARITES DOES,
WILL PULL OUT ANYWAY.
THE ANDORIANS
WILL DO THE SAME THING
THE TELLARITES
IF SHRAN KILLS ONE OF THEM.
SO...I'M THE ONLY ONE
WHO CAN BE KILLED,
BECAUSE STARFLEET
WON'T WITHDRAW.
THIS OPERATION IS IMPORTANT,
CONSIDERING THAT IT MIGHT LEAD
TO AN ALLIANCE OF PLANETS.
VULCANS HAVE A SAYING --
ONE MAN CAN SUMMON THE FUTURE.
WHAT HAPPENS IF THAT MAN
THROWS AWAY HIS LIFE
BEFORE HIS TIME?
IF I'VE LEARNED ANYTHING THESE
PAST FEW YEARS ON ENTERPRISE,
IT'S THAT THE FUTURE
ISN'T FIXED.
IF ANYTHING HAPPENS TO YOU...
THEN I'D BETTER MAKE SURE
THAT NOTHING DOES.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
FIND YOU UP THIS LATE.
DIDN'T EXPECT TO
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
TOO WIRED TO SLEEP.
THE CAPTAIN'S GONNA BE
HARD TO BELIEVE
FIGHTING A DUEL TO THE DEATH
IN A FEW HOURS.
BARBARIC, IF YOU ASK ME.
-WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING AT?
-THE CODE OF THE USHAAN.
T'POL WANTS ME TO
GO OVER IT AGAIN,
A WAY OUT OF THIS MESS.
SEE IF I CAN FIND
WELL, THE LAST I HEARD,
THE CAPTAIN SOUNDED DETERMINED
TO GO THROUGH WITH IT.
SHE WANTS ME TO FIND
A LOOPHOLE,
SOME WAY TO FORFEIT WITHOUT
OFFENDING THE ANDORIANS.
TWO OF US COULD GET THROUGH
THAT A LOT FASTER.
LOOK AT THIS.
CAN POSTPONE A DUEL INDEFINITELY
EITHER COMBATANT
IF THERE ARE NO CHILDREN
TO CONTINUE HIS CLAN.
HOW DOES THAT HELP US?
AS FAR AS I KNOW, CAPTAIN ARCHER
DOESN'T HAVE ANY KIDS.
HIS CLAN WOULD DIE WITH HIM.
IF HE'S KILLED,
THAT RULE ONLY APPLIES
IF HE'S MARRIED.
DON'T SUPPOSE WE CAN FIND HIM
A WIFE IN THE NEXT FOUR HOURS.
EVEN IF WE COULD,
THE ANDORIANS WOULD CRY FOUL.
SOMETHING TELLS ME
[ SIGHS ]
TO THIS RIDICULOUS HONOR CODE.
THERE ARE 12,000 AMENDMENTS
THAT CAN GET HIM OUT OF THIS.
THERE'S GOT TO BE ONE
INSTEAD OF LOOKING
FOR A LOOPHOLE,
MAYBE WE SHOULD BE TRYING
FOR THE CAPTAIN TO WIN.
TO FIND A WAY
IF THE CAPTAIN WINS,
SHRAN'S DEAD.
THE ALLIANCE FALLS APART.
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN
TO NOBELIA PRIME?
NOT RECENTLY.
THE TRIBAL ELDERS THERE --
CHALLENGE YOU TO A DUEL
THEY CAN
IF YOU LOOK AT THEM
THE WRONG WAY.
HAPPENED TO MY FATHER.
HOW DID HE GET OUT OF IT?
HAS THE COMBAT RULES?
WHICH ONE OF THESE
DON'T TRY AND BLOCK WITH THIS.
WHEN HE SWINGS, INTERCEPT,
DEFLECT, AND HOOK IT AWAY.
BETWEEN THE EYES AND TWIST.
BETTER TO INSERT
IS HIGHER THAN HUMANS'.
ANDORIAN METABOLISM
YOU'LL EXHAUST HIM.
KEEP MOVING,
HOW ABOUT I JUST WIN?
TAKE YOUR PLACES.
THERE IS STILL TIME
TO END THIS.
IT CAN ONLY END ONE WAY.
THIS IS NOT WHAT I WANTED.
THINGS HAVE A WAY OF TURNING OUT
DIFFERENTLY THAN WE EXPECT.
I'M GLAD WE MET.
IN YOUR HONOR, I'LL CONTINUE
TO SUPPORT COOPERATION
BETWEEN THE IMPERIAL GUARD
AND YOUR SPECIES.
LET'S GET THIS OVER WITH.
I GOT A SHIP TO RUN.
I'LL TAKE YOUR BLOOD
TO ANDORIA...
TO THE WALL OF HEROES.
NOT TODAY.
YOU HAVE THE FIRST MOVE.
[ BOTH GRUNTING ]
GIVE UP.
AND THERE'LL BE NO PAIN.
A SINGLE STROKE,
YOU THINK I'M LOSING?
I'M JUST TRYING TO MAKE YOU LOOK
GOOD IN FRONT OF YOUR SOLDIERS.
NOW DO YOU GIVE UP?
NEVER!
WRONG CHOICE.
YOU SHOULD HAVE
CUT OFF MY HEAD!
BUT I STILL NEED YOUR HELP.
I CONSIDERED IT,
[ GROANING ]
WHAT GOOD IS A GUARDSMAN
WITHOUT TWO ANTENNAE?
UGH.
YOU'LL BEGIN TO COMPENSATE
WITHIN A DAY OR TWO.
THEY TAKE NINE MONTHS
TO GROW BACK.
IF LEFT UNTREATED.
WITH ELECTRICAL STIMULATION
AND BRISK CRANIAL MASSAGE,
YOU'LL BE BACK TO NORMAL
IN HALF THAT TIME.
OF AN ANTENNA WASN'T CRITICAL...
I WAS TOLD THAT THE LOSS
YOU HUMILIATED ME.
...AND THAT THE USHAAN
IS SETTLED
RENDERED DEFENSELESS.
WHEN ONE FIGHTER IS
ARE WE DONE?
ANDORIAN TRADITION.
YOU RESPECTED
IT'S SETTLED.
-Bridge to Captain Archer.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPS ]
THE MARAUDER'S POWER SIGNATURE.
FOUR SHIPS HAVE LOCATED
CAN YOU PICK UP BIO-SIGNS?
NOT AT THIS DISTANCE.
PLOT AN INTERCEPT COURSE.
TRAVIS,
TAKE US TO MAXIMUM WARP.
INTERCEPT IN 47 MINUTES.
ALERT THE FLEET.
HAVE DETECTED ENTERPRISE.
THE DRONE'S SENSORS
IT'S CLOSING.
ACTIVATE THE HOLOGRAPHIC SKIN.
SOMETHING'S STARTING TO DRAW
A LOT OF POWER.
WENT DOWN IN THE EXPLOSION.
IT'S ALL THE SYSTEMS THAT
THEY'RE COMING BACK ONLINE.
-WHAT ABOUT THE WARP MATRIX?
-NOT YET.
ENTERPRISE, WE'D BETTER HURRY.
BUT IF WE WANT TO CONTACT
APPROACHING VISUAL RANGE.
ON SCREEN.
MAGNIFY.
VULCAN?
CHECK THEIR POWER SIGNATURE.
IT DOESN'T MATCH.
TACTICAL ALERT.
CHARGE WEAPONS.
ENTERPRISE WILL REACH THE DRONE
BEFORE THE MATRIX IS RESTORED.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
I WAS NOT TOLD OF YOUR VISIT.
SENATOR,
BOARD AND DISABLE THE DRONE.
YOU ALLOWED OUR ENEMIES TO
I HAVE MY SOURCES, ADMIRAL.
THEN YOU KNOW WE ARE ABOUT
TO ENGAGE THE HUMAN SHIP.
I'M HERE TO WITNESS
ITS DESTRUCTION.
ONE MINUTE.
-[ COMPUTER BEEPING ]
-WE HAVE BIO-SIGNS.
TWO HUMANS.
A TRANSPORTER LOCK?
CAN YOU GET
WE'LL NEED TO BE MUCH CLOSER.
OPEN A CHANNEL.
ARCHER TO TUCKER AND REED.
RESPOND.
We're both here, Captain.
[ SIGHS ]
FIRE.
TARGET ITS WEAPONS.
THROUGH THE CAMOUFLAGE.
I CAN'T GET A LOCK
BUT DON'T PUNCTURE THE HULL.
TAKE OUT THE EMITTERS,
[ BOTH GRUNT ]
THEY DO KNOW WE'RE ONBOARD?
THEY'RE PROBABLY TRYING
TO TAKE OUT THE WEAPONS.
OF USING THE TRANSPORTER?
ENTERPRISE, ANY CHANCE
YOU HAVE TO GET CLOSER
TO THE HULL.
-Can you do that?
-WE'RE ON OUR WAY.
WE'VE LOST THE EMITTERS.
WARP STATUS?
MORE ENEMY SHIPS ARE CLOSING.
TWO MINUTES.
THE SELF-REPAIR SEQUENCE --
IF ENTERPRISE STOPS
THE DRONE WILL ESCAPE.
WE'RE AT THE HULL!
ENTERPRISE!
ERRATIC. I CAN'T GET A LOCK.
THE SHIP'S MOVEMENT IS TOO
THEY'RE TARGETING
OUR WARP CORE.
HULL PLATING IS AT 43%.
36%.
ALL POWER TO HULL PLATING.
SHUT DOWN WEAPONS.
TRAVIS, BRING US ABOUT.
WE CAN MAKE ONE MORE PASS.
TRIP, MALCOLM,
GET THE HELL OUT OF THERE.
THEIR WEAPONS ARE OFFLINE.
THEY'RE VULNERABLE.
I CAN'T IMAGINE HOW THINGS
COULD GET MUCH WORSE!
I CAN.
AAH!
THEY'RE CLEAR.
SENSORS ARE DOWN.
I'VE LOST THEM.
SIX MORE ENEMY SHIPS
WITHIN RANGE.
20 SECONDS TO WARP.
WE'VE GOT COMPANY --
ALLIANCE SHIPS.
TELL THEM NOT TO FIRE.
OUR PEOPLE ARE OUT THERE.
THE MATRIX IS RESTORED.
WITHDRAW.
YOU WERE RIGHT.
THEY LEFT US.
THIS IS WORSE.
Anyone out there need a lift?
IF I HAD TO WEAR THIS HELMET
FOR ONE MORE MINUTE,
I SWEAR IT WOULD'VE
FUSED TO MY SKULL.
[ CHUCKLES ]
I TELL YOU, I'D LIKE TO FIND
THE DESIGNER OF THIS SUIT
WEAR IT FOR THREE DAYS.
AND MAKE HIM
YEAH.
YOU DID BACK THERE.
THANKS FOR WHAT
YEAH, YOU WOULD HAVE DONE
THE SAME FOR ME.
NO, YOU TOOK A BIG CHANCE...
WHICH MAKES WHAT I HAVE TO DO
ALL THE MORE DIFFICULT.
I'M PUTTING YOU ON REPORT.
YOU'RE WHAT?
A DIRECT ORDER.
YOU DISOBEYED
I SAVED YOUR LIFE!
IF YOU PUT A REPRIMAND
IN MY FILE,
IT COULD BE YEARS BEFORE
I'M EVEN ELIGIBLE FOR...
[ LAUGHING ]
ARE YOU PULLING MY LEG?
M-MALCOLM, YOU'RE JUST
SUCH AN EASY TARGET.
[ LAUGHING ]
[ DOOR OPENS ]
THE MARAUDER GOT AWAY.
ONE OF THE TELLARITE SHIPS
WAS HIT.
AN ANDORIAN WARSHIP
RESCUED THE CREW.
SO IT'S STILL OUT THERE --
A COMMON THREAT.
AS YOU SAID,
DISCUSS THAN TRADE DISPUTES.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE MORE TO
WE GET TO BABEL?
WHY WAIT UNTIL
REENTERED ROMULAN SPACE.
THE DRONE HAS
DISCONNECT THE PILOT.